1.	What is a code repository (often also called version control system) used for?
A Code repository is a place to store all source code, related documents, local or online repositories and source code version control.
2.	Why is it advantageous to use a code repository?
It’s advantageous to use a code repository because its keep your code safe and store files you want to protect them
3.	Describe the different “layers” of Software that exist on a typical computer and explain why there are different layers of software.
A. Application software, which used by the computer system to perform a special functions or provide entertainment functions beyond the basic operation of the computer itself.
B. System software, which is designed to directly operate the computer hardware, to provide basic functionality needed by users and other software, and to provide a platform for running application software and include the operating systems, device drivers and the utilities.
C. Malicious software, which are computer programs developed to harm and disrupt computers.
There are different layers of software because the range of tasks that can be performed with a modern computer is so large.
4.	Describe what an algorithm is and explain why it is a useful “tool” to translate from a human level problem (we can think of) to a computer program.
In computer science, an algorithm is a self-contained step-by-step set of operations to be performed. Also is a procedure or formula for solving a problem. It’s a useful tool because CPU only understands machine language instructions Programs that are written in a high-level language must be translated into machine language Depending on the language that a program has been written in, the programmer will use either a compiler or an interpreter to make the translation.
5.	Write an algorithm that describes how to make scrambled eggs, try to use control words, like IF, WHEN, UNTIL, WHILE, WAIT, AND, OR.
A)	Get Pan
B)	Take the eggs
C)	WHEN crack the eggs together put them in the pan
D)	WAIT for them to boil well
E)	WHEN they boil well take them out
F)	Ready to eat them


6.	Is Idle (the Python language shell) an Interpreter or an Compiler or both? Explain your answer.
The Python language uses an interpreter, which is a program that both translates and executes the instructions in a high-level language program Interpreters combine translation and execution, they typically do not create separate machine language programs.

For the practical part this lab please save the Python programs that you create and take screenshots of the execution (evaluation) of your programs.

1)	Write a command in the Idle shell that says “Hello world” 
print(”Hello World”)
Hello World
 





2)	Write a program that produces the following output: Hello World I am in my ISD class right now
Print(“Hello World”)
Print(“I am in ISD class right now”)
Hello World
I am in my ISD class right now

 
 

3) Write a program that asks the user for his/her name and produces an output
like: Hi there, what is your name? >User input to be read< Hello (Users name) How are you?
Var=input(“Hi there ,what is your name?”)
Print(“Hello”, var ,”How are you?”)
Hi there, what is you name?
Hello … How are you?
 

3)	Write a program that asks for two numbers (Python has all the basic Mathematical functions in place, like +,- etc.), adds them up and displays the Result.
Var3=int(input(“write first number “))
Var4=input(input(“write second number “))
Var5=var3=var4
Print(“sum “,var5)
 
